README.md, before:

<div align="center">
<h1>Totem Client</h1>
<a href="https://github.com/totem-technologies/totem_app/actions/workflows/build.yaml"><img alt="GitHub Workflow Status" src="https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/totem-technologies/totem_app/build.yaml?color=%2320A920"></a>
<a href="https://pub.dev/packages/flutter">
  <img alt="Flutter SDK" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/flutter-%3E%3D3.29-blue?logo=flutter&style=flat-square">
</a>
<a href="https://totem.org">
  <img alt="Website" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/visit-totem.org-orange?style=flat-square">
</a>
<p><em>Guided introspection groups at <a href="https://www.totem.org">totem.org</a></em></p>
</div>

## 🧭 Overview

Totem is a space for guided group introspection. This Flutter app is the **official open-source mobile client** for the Totem platform.
It connects people through structured group sessions and authentic conversations, powered by a thoughtfully crafted UI and backend.

This client targets both **iOS** and **Android**, using **Flutter** and **Riverpod** for a fast, modern, and scalable development experience.

---

## 🚀 Features

- 📅 View and explore available Totem Circles
<!-- - 🔐 Secure authentication and onboarding -->
- 💬 Join guided group sessions (with in-app video coming soon!)
  <!-- - 🧘 Personalized user profile and avatar -->
  <!-- - 🔔 Push notification integration -->
  <!-- - 🧪 CI/CD with GitHub Actions -->

---

## 🛠 Tech Stack

- **Flutter** 3.29+
- **Riverpod** for state management
- **json_serializable** + **Retrofit** for [typed API modeling](./swagger_parser.yaml)
- **GitHub Actions** for CI/CD

---

## 📦 Installation

Make sure you have [Flutter installed](https://docs.flutter.dev/get-started/install) and configured.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/totem-technologies/totem_app.git
cd totem_app
flutter pub get
make githooks  # Install git hooks for code formatting
```

> \[!NOTE]
>
> You must setup firebase locally.
> ⚠️ You must run `flutterfire configure` to generate firebase_options.dart and add your own Firebase config files (google-services.json, GoogleService-Info.plist) locally. These files are not committed to the repo. [Learn more](https://firebase.google.com/docs/flutter/setup)

### 📲 Running on Devices

For development:

```bash
flutter run -d android    # Android
flutter run -d ios        # iOS
flutter run -d chrome --web-browser-flag "--disable-web-security"     # Web (temporary testing)
```

If testing on an iOS device, ensure you're using macOS and have Xcode installed.

On android, When reattaching, use:

```bash
adb logcat "*:S" flutter:V
flutter attach
```

or

```bash
flutter run --use-application-binary=build\app\outputs\apk\debug\app-debug.apk
```

### 🧪 Testing

Run all tests:

```bash
flutter test
```

_Coming soon: Widget tests and CI-integrated integration tests._

### Deep Linking

To test deep linking, you can use the following commands:

For Android:

```bash
adb shell 'am start -a android.intent.action.VIEW -c android.intent.category.BROWSABLE -d "https://totem.org/spaces/event/doa689fvb"' org.totem.app
```

For iOS:

```bash
xcrun simctl openurl booted "https://totem.org/spaces/event/doa689fvb"
```

### Local Server

To run the app with a local server, you can set the `TOTEM_API_URL` environment variable at the `.env` file in the root directory of the project. This allows you to connect to a local instance of the Totem API.

```bash
API_URL="http://localhost:8000/"
MOBILE_API_URL="http://localhost:8000/"
```

## ✍️ Project Structure

```
lib/
├── api/             # API clients & models (generated with Retrofit)
├── auth/            # Auth flow: login, profile setup, state
├── core/            # Config, theme, services, errors
├── features/        # Feature modules (spaces, profile, video_sessions, etc.)
├── navigation/      # Centralized routing and guards
├── shared/          # Reusable widgets
└── main.dart        # Entry point, app root
```

### 📐 Architecture

We follow a **feature-first modular structure**, powered by Riverpod for state management.
API communication is handled using Retrofit + json_serializable with code generation.

For example:

- Logic lives in `controllers/`
- API integration in `repositories/`
- UI in `screens/`
- State is exposed via Riverpod providers

### 🔔 Notifications

Notifications are handled using Firebase Cloud Messaging (FCM). In the notification data, one may include a `path` key to specify the route to navigate to when the user taps on the notification. Check all the available routes [here](./lib/navigation/route_names.dart).

## 🚢 Release (for developers)

The release process is automated via a Dart script that handles versioning, tagging, and pushing to the repository.

### Prerequisites

Before creating a release, ensure:
- You are on the `main` branch
- Your working tree is clean (no uncommitted changes)
- Your local `main` branch is up-to-date with `origin/main`

### Creating a Release

Run the release command:

```bash
make release
```

The script will:
1. Display the current version from `pubspec.yaml`
2. Suggest a default version (increments patch and build number)
3. Prompt you to enter a new version


## 👥 Community

Join the Totem movement at [totem.org](https://www.totem.org).
To discuss development or get involved, feel free to open an issue or pull request.

<div align="center"> ✨ Built with care by the Totem Technologies team ✨ </div>

Commit message:

Flavors (#45)
* feat: iOS flavors

* feat: Android flavors

* chore(ios): Migrate to swift package manager

* chore: Bump dependencies

* fix: Android 12 splash screen

* chore(ios): Rename staging identifier

* chore(ios): Update deployment target

* chore(build): Update actions to run on flavors

* fix: Ensure staging api url is set when building for staging environment

* fix(android): Use correct application id suffix

* chore: update environment action

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
<h1>Totem Client</h1>
<a href="https://github.com/totem-technologies/totem_app/actions/workflows/build.yaml"><img alt="GitHub Workflow Status" src="https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/totem-technologies/totem_app/build.yaml?color=%2320A920"></a>
<a href="https://pub.dev/packages/flutter">
  <img alt="Flutter SDK" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/flutter-%3E%3D3.29-blue?logo=flutter&style=flat-square">
</a>
<a href="https://totem.org">
  <img alt="Website" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/visit-totem.org-orange?style=flat-square">
</a>
<p><em>Guided introspection groups at <a href="https://www.totem.org">totem.org</a></em></p>
</div>

## 🧭 Overview

Totem is a space for guided group introspection. This Flutter app is the **official open-source mobile client** for the Totem platform.
It connects people through structured group sessions and authentic conversations, powered by a thoughtfully crafted UI and backend.

This client targets both **iOS** and **Android**, using **Flutter** and **Riverpod** for a fast, modern, and scalable development experience.

---

## 🚀 Features

- 📅 View and explore available Totem Circles
<!-- - 🔐 Secure authentication and onboarding -->
- 💬 Join guided group sessions (with in-app video coming soon!)
  <!-- - 🧘 Personalized user profile and avatar -->
  <!-- - 🔔 Push notification integration -->
  <!-- - 🧪 CI/CD with GitHub Actions -->

---

## 🛠 Tech Stack

- **Flutter** 3.29+
- **Riverpod** for state management
- **json_serializable** + **Retrofit** for [typed API modeling](./swagger_parser.yaml)
- **GitHub Actions** for CI/CD

---

## 📦 Installation

Make sure you have [Flutter installed](https://docs.flutter.dev/get-started/install) and configured.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/totem-technologies/totem_app.git
flutter config --enable-swift-package-manager
cd totem_app
flutter pub get
make githooks  # Install git hooks for code formatting
```

> \[!NOTE]
>
> You must setup firebase locally.
> ⚠️ You must run `flutterfire configure` to generate firebase_options.dart and add your own Firebase config files (google-services.json, GoogleService-Info.plist) locally. These files are not committed to the repo. [Learn more](https://firebase.google.com/docs/flutter/setup)

### 📲 Running on Devices

For development:

```bash
flutter run -d android    # Android
flutter run -d ios        # iOS
flutter run -d chrome --web-browser-flag "--disable-web-security"     # Web (temporary testing)
```

If testing on an iOS device, ensure you're using macOS and have Xcode installed.

You can use the `--flavor` option to build for `staging` or `production` (default).

On android, When reattaching, use:

```bash
adb logcat "*:S" flutter:V
flutter attach
```

or

```bash
flutter run --use-application-binary=build\app\outputs\apk\debug\app-debug.apk
```

### 🧪 Testing

Run all tests:

```bash
flutter test
```

_Coming soon: Widget tests and CI-integrated integration tests._

### Deep Linking

To test deep linking, you can use the following commands:

For Android:

```bash
adb shell 'am start -a android.intent.action.VIEW -c android.intent.category.BROWSABLE -d "https://totem.org/spaces/event/doa689fvb"' org.totem.app
```

For iOS:

```bash
xcrun simctl openurl booted "https://totem.org/spaces/event/doa689fvb"
```

### Local Server

To run the app with a local server, you can set the `TOTEM_API_URL` environment variable at the `.env` file in the root directory of the project. This allows you to connect to a local instance of the Totem API.

```bash
API_URL="http://localhost:8000/"
MOBILE_API_URL="http://localhost:8000/"
```

## ✍️ Project Structure

```
lib/
├── api/             # API clients & models (generated with Retrofit)
├── auth/            # Auth flow: login, profile setup, state
├── core/            # Config, theme, services, errors
├── features/        # Feature modules (spaces, profile, video_sessions, etc.)
├── navigation/      # Centralized routing and guards
├── shared/          # Reusable widgets
└── main.dart        # Entry point, app root
```

### 📐 Architecture

We follow a **feature-first modular structure**, powered by Riverpod for state management.
API communication is handled using Retrofit + json_serializable with code generation.

For example:

- Logic lives in `controllers/`
- API integration in `repositories/`
- UI in `screens/`
- State is exposed via Riverpod providers

### 🔔 Notifications

Notifications are handled using Firebase Cloud Messaging (FCM). In the notification data, one may include a `path` key to specify the route to navigate to when the user taps on the notification. Check all the available routes [here](./lib/navigation/route_names.dart).

## 🚢 Release (for developers)

The release process is automated via a Dart script that handles versioning, tagging, and pushing to the repository.

### Prerequisites

Before creating a release, ensure:
- You are on the `main` branch
- Your working tree is clean (no uncommitted changes)
- Your local `main` branch is up-to-date with `origin/main`

### Creating a Release

Run the release command:

```bash
make release
```

The script will:
1. Display the current version from `pubspec.yaml`
2. Suggest a default version (increments patch and build number)
3. Prompt you to enter a new version


## 👥 Community

Join the Totem movement at [totem.org](https://www.totem.org).
To discuss development or get involved, feel free to open an issue or pull request.

<div align="center"> ✨ Built with care by the Totem Technologies team ✨ </div>
